# magic-sauce
Tools for managing a Minecraft server via Docker, used on the GhostLand Modded SMP.

## What exactly does this do:
It's basically a template engine for `compose.yml`. You can define instances, worlds, etc., and this will auto-generate a `compose.yml` based on [itzg/minecraft-server](https://docker-minecraft-server.readthedocs.io/) for you.

## Repo structure:
* `_internal/` - contains various magic-sauces assets: example configs and Compose templates. You probably want to edit this on GH (on a fork, if you're not from GhostLand), and not touch in regular operations (other than with a `git pull`).
* `.devcontainer`, `.git/`, `.gitignore` - things for other systems (VSCode and Git); irrelevant here.
* `backups/` - Contains sub-folders with each world's global-name (will be explained shortly in `worlds.csv`), each populated it with its instance's backup(s) made by the `backuper:` container. Paths can be adjusted by changing the template (see above) and `.gitignore`, if you want it to eg. point at an external drive.
* `db/` - The DB. Made by Docker.
* `instances/` - Contains your instances. As you can guess by the placeholders below, instances are identified simply by their folder name - no fancy format there. Not included in this repo (see `.gitignore`) - you'll need to create one yourself in your local `git clone` and populate with whatever instances you need.
* `instances/<instance name>/` - is your instance. Just a regular Minecraft server folder, with 1 extra file (see below) - nothing too fancy. Note, that when creating an instance, you only need to create this folder and that aforementioned file. Everything else gets filled-in by the Docker image, from your modpack, or by Minecraft itself (that is, to say, you don't need to put any JARs, `server.properties`, `./mods/` or `eula=true`s there).
* `instances/<instance name>/<world name>/` - Contains a world - again, just like a regular MC server would (and just like on a regular MC server, you don't need to create this file - it gets auto-built for you). Nothing unusual about it (at least as far as the folder goes - we'll get to `worlds.csv` soon); moving on...
* `instances/<instance name>/_mc_options.txt` - Describes your instance (notably, its modpack and Java version). See `_internal/examples/instances/instancename` for reference and `_internal/examples/instances/populated-example` for a practical usage example.
* `modpacks/` - A folder that gets mounted as read-only into `/modpacks/` inside the Minecraft container. Nominally, you should store modpacks there (as the name implies), but it's not actually enforced in any way, and if you're eg. using web URLs for modpack downloads instead, you can use this folder for anything else. Or adjust the template to just fully get rid of it.
* `secrets/` - Docker secrets. See the Compose footer template, to see what secrets are supposed to be present there.
* `stats_export/` - Contains sub-folders with each world's global-name (will be explained shortly in `worlds.csv`), each populated it with its `instances/<instance name>/<world name>/stats/`. Produced by `./local-gen.py`'s own Docker process and consumed by our account bot.
* `web/` - Caddy stuff. Some come from here, but some are `.gitignored` and are made by Docker at runtime.
* `_mc_hist.txt` - Is a launch history of your server. Defines what's *currently* running on your server (or what *was* running there, the last time it was launched).
* `_mc_options.txt` - Defines what's *supposed to be* running on your server. On line one, you put the RAM GB number, eg. `4` or `8`. On line 2, you put the global-name of the world you want to play on (and everything else - the instance, the actual world inside said instance, the modpack, and Java version - is subsequently read from there). See `_internal/examples/` for extra reference (no examples this time).
* `compose.yml` - *That's... Why I'm here?*
* `LICENSE` - MIT
* `local-gen.py` - The script that does all the magic. See section below.
* `README.md` - [YOU ARE HERE]
* `worlds.csv` - Contains 3 columns: Global Name, Inner Name, Instance Name. The Global Name is how you *uniquely refer* to your world - eg. `my-perma-world`, across *all instances*. It's used when reading `_mc_options.txt` to determine which world you're launching (ie. which instance should be launched (and from there, the modpack and the Java version), with which world from it) and it's also used when exporting world data into `stats_export/` or into `backups/` (because in there, all worlds from all instances sit side-by-side, so using their in-instance names would lead to conflicts very quickly). In general, once you use-up a Global Name (ie. have a world with it, then remove said world), you should never reuse it again (ie. create a new world with the same Global Name).If you do, this may lead to some people's playtime stats going back in time or generally not being tracked correctly (if you play for a longer time on a world, then remove it, then create a new world with the same Global Name and play on it briefly - the bot will load the „updated” stat, which is actually shorter - on the other hand, if you simply remove a world, but don't reuse the global name, then it will not overwrite the previous stat with „nothing”, but rather keep it around). The Inner Name is how the world is called inside your instance folder. By default, MC calls just calls it `world`. Finally, Instance Name is the name of the instance that contains the aforementioned Inner Name'd world inside. See `_internal/examples/` for both extra reference and examples.

## How to use:
* If you're a GhostLand admin - JifoCC (`minecraft`, `jifoctl` or the web UI) will use this for you. No need to run anything.
* If you're a dev - use `./local-gen.py compose` to run our `compose.yml` generator locally. From there, use regular Compose commands (like `docker compose up -d`) to launch and use things.
* If you're some other server's admin - either develop your own management console (like GhostLand's JCC), or use `./local-gen.py`+Compose+*manually-writing-files* for everything, if you're not scared of a bit of command line (note that `./local-gen.py` can also do other basic tasks, other than generating Compose files, eg. checking sync status between your Compose and Options, listing worlds, instances, etc., or building statdirs - basically, all it *doesn't* do is integration with Compose and auto-writing/editing files (it only reads them, except for `compose.yml`), which are things that a decently-experienced sysadmin can handle with their eyes closed.). Remember to update our templates (in `_internal/`) if you decide to run this on your server, tho! You probably wouldn't want to call your project `ghostland` or run our account-bot instead of your own (or none - tbh, that's what most people will likely do), or anything like that - meanwhile, you may want to make some general changes to things like mountpoints, Caddyfiles, or networking. Ideally, make all those adjustements in a GitHub fork - both to make it easier to keep up with any updates (you can just edit a local `git clone`, but (assuming a headless server env) dealing with any conflicts would be a pain) and to show us some rough userbase for this.